# Request and Response Objects
> objects that pass information to and from the browser.
> 
> When Django receives a request, it creates an HttpRequest object that 
> contains all the details of the request, 
> 
> Django then parses the URL and loads the view associated with that URL
> 
> Django Passes the HttpRequest instance to the view as the first argument to the view function
> 
> Once the view processes the request, it must return an HttpResponse object.
> 
## Request Objects
```python
from django.http import HttpRequest
r = HttpRequest()
r.scheme
r.META
```

###  HttpRequest Attributes
> [a complete list of HttpRequest object attributes]()
> 
> you can add `assert False` somewhere in the view to examine the request data in Django's error page. 
> 
> Django set the session cookie to track the authenticated session. 
> 
> The Response from your veiws does not have to be HTML, 
> 
> Django can generate any text-based format you choose.
> 
> you can also output binary data like PDF files and images
> 
### HttpRequest Methods
> [a complete list of HttpRequest Methods]()
> 
## Response Objects
> [a complete list of HttpResponse methods]()
> While Django creates HttpRequest objects for you, it's up to you to create HttpResponse objects.
> 
> Each view must create, populate and return a response.
```python
from django.http import HttpResponse
resp = HttpResponse('<h1>Events </h1>')
resp.content
# you can treat a response as a file-like object for adding content
resp.write("<p> Welcome to the vents page</p>")
resp.content
```

> your can also test the response from your views in the interactive shell by importing the view
> and passing an HttpRequest object:
```python
from django.http import HttpRequest
from events.views import index
r = HttpRequest()
resp = index(r)
resp.content
```
> HttpResponse has five attributes you can access:
> .content
> .charset
> .status_code
> .reason_phrase
> .closed

# serving files with fileResponse objects
> while FileResponse provides a simple way to provide file downloads with your django application,
> it's not recommended you do so unless you have a simple, low traffic website
> 
> a more robust and just as simple solution is to save the file on Dropbox, Google Drive or Amazon s3 and have a link to the file in your page HTML
> 
> `FileResponse` is a subclass of `StreamingHttpResponse` that accepts binary data, and generates a response
> with the correct Content-Type and Content Dispostion headers, ready to send to the browser as a binary stream or as a file attachment. 
> 
# QueryDict objects
> [a complete list of avaialbe QueryDict methods]()
> a dictionary-like class that has been customized to handle multiple values for the same key. 
> 
```python
from django.http import HttpRequest, QueryDict
r = HttpRequest()
r.GET
r.GET = QueryDict('manager=bob&manager=dave&event=Presentation')
# Once created, GET and POST data are immutable. 
# to create a modifiable QueryDict, you must use the copy() method
r1 = r.GET.copy()
r1.update({'mangaer': 'ted'})
```

# TemplateResponse Objects
> While the content of an HttpResponse object can be modified, its static, prerendered structure is difficult to modify. 
> 
> Once HttpResponse is rendered, it also loses the template and context details provided to the view.
> 
> sometimes, it's handy to be able to modifiy a response after it's been constructed by the view but before it's rendered.
> 
> - decorators and middleware
> 
# Middleware
> Middleware is a framework of hooks taht sit between Django's request and response processes. 
> 
> Each middleware performs a specific function and must accept a request and return a response(just like a view)
> 
> There are seven middleware installed by default
> 
> each middleware is processed in the same order as they are listed in settings.py
> 
> In the request phase, middleware is applied from top to bottom.
> 
> each middleware either passes a response to the next middleware or short-circuits to the view
> 
> In the response phase, middleware are processed in reverse order. 
> 
> if a middleware short-circuits to the view, the response will only pass through the same middleware called on the request cycle.
> 
> some of the default middleware depend on other middleware, so the order of the middleware matters. 


# writing your own middleware
> to create your own middleware, you need to create a callable 
> that takes a `get_response` object and returns a `middleware` object
> 
> middleware is a callable that takes a request and returns a response, just like a view.
> 
> 
> use middleware to modify Django's input and output during the request/response cycle.
```python
class myMiddleware:
    def __init__(self, get_response):
        self.get_response = get_response
    def __call__(self, request):
        # this code is executed before the next middleware or view is called
        request.META['CUSTOM_KEY'] = 'sdkflas'
        response = self.get_response(request)
        return response

def my_middleware(get_response):
    # configuration and initialization
    
    def middleware(request):
        request.META['djflks'] = 'slkdjf'
        response = get_response(request)
        return response

    return middleware

# settings.py
MIDDLEWARE = ['<package of middleware>']
``` 

# Generating Non-HTML Content
> The response from your views does not have to be HTML
> Django can generate any text-based format you choose. you can also output binary data like PDF files and images
> 
> 
# Pagination
> `Paginator(object_list, per_page)`
> object_list : a list, tuple, QuerySet or other sliceable objects
> per_page: the maximum items to include on a page. 
```python
from django.core.paginator import Paginator
from events.models import ClubUser
p = Paginator(ClubUser.objects.all(), 3)
p.page(number)
p.get_page(number=number)
p.count # total objects on all pages
p.num_pages # total number of pages
p.page_range # an iterator of page numbers
```

# page objects
[complete list of page class attributes and methods]()
Page object is created when you call Paginator.page()

# pagination in views
to display paginated data in your browser requires two things:
1. a view that creates a Paginator object, populates it with data, and sends it to a template
2. that parses the Paginator and displays the page data.
