# Template System Basics
> Django Template is a text file, not only an HTML file, but also be non-HTML files. 
> 
> Non-HTML examples include email templates and CSV templates
> 
> a template is a string of text that intended for separating the presentation of a document from its data.
> 
>  template defines `placeholders` and various bits of `basic logic` that determine how the document should be displayed
> 
> Django's templates are capable of generating any text-based format, 
> it just happened that in most case, templates are html format. 
>
> Django uses short-circuit logic when searching for templates. 
> This can be a problem when you have two apps in a project with a template with the same name. 
> 
> solve this problem by namespacing our templates, 
> that is adding a folder named after the app to our templates' folder.
> 
> namespacing templates is a convention, not a hard and fast rule. 
> 

# How Django Finds Templates
> sites template, the most common place for storing site template files in Django is in 
> the website app that Django Created automatically for you when ran startproject. 
> 
> As your website app is not in INSTALLED_APPS, Django won't automatically look for templates in 
> the \project\templates folder, you must tell Django where to look by adding a path to the DIRS setting,
> 
> The DIRS list is not just for letting Django know where your site templates are. 
> It's also useful for listing any template resources that exist outside your existing apps.
> Note that Django will search your DIRS list in the order listed
> 
```python
# settings.py
TEMPLATES = [
    {
        "BACKEND": 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
        'DIRS':[],
        "APP_DIRS": True, # when it is True, 
                          # the Django Template Engine will look for templates in 
                          # a folder called 'templates' in each app listed in INSTALLED_APPS
        "OPTIONS":{
            'context_processors':[
                'django.template.context_processors.debug',
            ]
        },
    }

]
```

## Template tags, Variables and Filter
### Template tags
1. Display Logic {% if %} {% endif %}
2. Loop Control {% for x in y %} {% endfor %}
3. Block Declaration {% block content %} {% endblock %}
4. Content Import {% include 'header .html' %}
5. Inheritance {% extends 'base.html' %}
6. Loading static files {% load static %} 
7. Loading resources {% static '*.css' %}


### Template Variable
> template variables are passed to the template at runtime in the context
> 
> with few exceptions, the methods and attributes available to the python object 
> are accessible in the template via the dot operator. 
>
> 
> 1. Simple Variable {{title}}
> 2. Object Attributes {{page.title}}
> 3. Dictionary Lookups {{dict.key}}
> 4. List Indexes {{list_items.0}}
> 5. Method Calls {{var.upper}}

### Template Filter
> filters modify a variable for display. 
> 
> 1. change case {{name|title}} {{units|lower}}
> 2. truncation {{post_content|truncatewords:50}}
> 3. date formatting {{ order_date|date:"D M Y"}}
> 4. list slicing {{list_items|slice:":3"}}
> 5. Default values {{item_total|default:"nil"}}
> 
# Creating a site templates
create a common look and branding for every page on the website.

# Displaying a Template
> when using a template, Django first load the template, create a context, which is a dictionary of variables
> and associated data passed back to the browser.
```python
# in a view
return render(request, template, context)
```

 # Loading Static Files
static files: images, CSS and JavaScript
Django was designed to make it easy to serve static media from a different server to the one 
that the main Django application was running on

```python
# settings.py
STATIC_URL = 'static/'
# add setting so Django can find the static files for the sites
# here telling Django to look for static files in the static directory in the project root
STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / '<project>/static']
```

# define a template
# define a view
# define a url configuration.

# Template Design Philosophy
keep django logic and code separate from design. 

templates are not python code embedded into HTML, it is not possible to execute python code in a Django template

a Designer need only leave HTML comments in the template for a programmer to replace with template tags 


built-in filters and tags, 
self-defined filters and tags

template tags: 
{% for item in items %} do something {% endfor %}
{% if bool_var_or_expression %} do something {% endif %}
{% if b_v_e %} do something {% else %} do other thing {% endif %}

filter and variables:
{{ variable }}
{{ variable|var_filter:'arg' }} passing the variable to the var_filter, giving the filter the argument "arg", the filter format the variable in a given format 



when we use a template, Django first load the template, create a context which is a dictionary of variables and associated data passed back to the browser, and return an HTTPREponse
Django autoescapes all code before sending it to the browser, this is a built-in security feature designed to prevent a hacker inserting malicious code into your sites. 

{% autoescape off %} {% endautoescape %}


a site template needs to be independent of all the other apps in your Django project

with Django's template inheritance, 
you create a parent template containing content shared by every page on the website 
and child templates that inherit these features from the parent. 
Child templates can then add content and formatting unique to the child. 


```html

<html>
    <head><title>Order slips</title></head>
    <body>
        <p>Dear 
            {{ customer }}, <!-- {{variable}} it means insert the value of the variable with the given name-->
        </p>
        <p>Thanks for placing an order with us 
            It's scheduled to ship on {{ ship_date|date:"F j, Y" }}. <!-- filter alter a display of a variable-->
        </p>
        <p>Here are the items you've ordered:</p>
        
        <ul>
            {% for item in items %} <!-- template tag,  -->
                <li>{{ item }}</li>
            {% endfor %}
        </ul>
        
        {% if ordered_warranty %} <!-- template tag, a tag tells the template system to 'do sth' -->
            <p>Your warranty information will be included in the packaging.</p>
        {% endif %}
        
        <p>Sincerely,<br />{{ company }}</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

## using of Template System
1. create a `Template` object by providing the raw template code as a string
2. call the render() methond of the `Template` object with a given set of variables (the context), 
this returns a fully rendered template as a string. with all of the variables and block tags evaluated according to the context

```python
# basic walk through
from django.template import Template
t = Template("my name is {{ name }}")
print(t)

```

when you create a  `Tempalte` object, the template system compiles teh raw template code into an internal, optimized form, ready for rendering, 
but if your template code includes any syntax errors, the call to Template() will cause a `TempalteSyntaxError` exception.
```python
from django.template import Template
t = Template('{% not_a_tag %}')

```

# Rendering a template

once you have a `Template` object, you can pass it data by giving it a *context*

A *context* 'is a dictionary' with a set of variables and their associated values, 

a template uses context to populate its variable tags and evaluate its block tags.

a context is represented by `Context`

```python
from django.template import Template, Context
t = Template('my name is {{ name }}')
c = Context({'name': 'Mike'})
t.render(c)
```

```python
from django.template import Template, Context
import datetime
raw_template = """
<html>
    <head><title>Order slips</title></head>
    <body>
        <p>Dear 
            {{ customer }}, <!-- {{variable}} it means insert the value of the variable with the given name-->
        </p>
        <p>Thanks for placing an order with us 
            It's scheduled to ship on {{ ship_date|date:"F j, Y" }}. <!-- filter alter a display of a variable-->
        </p>
        <p>Here are the items you've ordered:</p>
        
        <ul>
            {% for item in items %} <!-- template tag,  -->
                <li>{{ item }}</li>
            {% endfor %}
        </ul>
        
        {% if ordered_warranty %} <!-- template tag, a tag tells the template system to 'do sth' -->
            <p>Your warranty information will be included in the packaging.</p>
        {% endif %}
        
        <p>Sincerely,<br />{{ company }}</p>
    </body>
</html>
"""

t = Template(raw_template)
C = Context({
    'customer': 'Jhon',
    'product': 'Laptop',
    'company': 'Sixdigit',
    'ship_date': datetime.date(2022,1,1),
    'ordered_warranty': True,
})


```

# multiple Contexts, same template

once you have a `Template` object, you can render multiple contexts through it.
```python
from django.template import Template, Context
t = Template('my name is {{ name }}')
for name in ['Harry', 'Jhon', 'Mike']:
    c = Context({"name": name})
    print(t.render(c))
```

Django's template parsing is quite fast, most of the parsing use a single call to a short regex

# Context Variable lookup
it tries the following lookups:
    Dictionary lookup
    Attribute lookup
    Method call
    List-index lookup

Dot lookups can be nested multiple levels deep. 
```python
from django.template import Template, Context
import  datetime
customer = {'name': 'May', 'order_id': 4}
t = Template("{{ customer.name.upper }} order number is {{ customer.order_id }}")
c = Context({"customer": customer})
t.render(c)

d = datetime.date(2022, 5, 2)
t = Template("This month is {{ date.month }} and the year is {{ date.year }}")
c = Context({'date':d})
t.render(c)

class Customer(object):
    def __init__(self, first_name, last_name):
        self.first_name, self.last_name = first_name, last_name

t = Template("Welcome, {{ customer.first_name }} {{ customer.last_name }}")
c = Context({'customer': Customer('John', 'Smith')})
t.render(c)

t = Template('{{var }} -- {{var.upper }} -- {{ var.isdigit }}') # you don't include parentheses in the method calls. 
                                                                # and it's not possible to pass arguments to the methods, 
                                                                # you can only call methods that have no required arguments. 
c = Context({'var': 'hello'})
t.render(c)
t.render(Context({'var':'123'}))

# access list indices, negative list indices are not allowed
t = Template('Item 2 is {{ item.2 }}')
t.render(Context({'item': ['apple', 'bananas', 'carrots']}))

```

## Method call behavior
- if a method raises an exception, the exception will be propagated, 
  unless the exception has an attribute `silent_variable_failure` https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/templates/api/ 
- a method call will only work if the method has no required arguments. 
- method with side effect: `alters_data`

## handling invalid variables 
by default, if a variable doesn't exist, the template system render it as an empty string, failing silently

## adding and delete items from a Context object
```python
from django.template import Context
c = Context({'f': 'b'})
print(c['f'])
del c['f']
c['new'] = 'hello'
print(c['new'])



```

# Basic Template tags and Filters

{% if bool_var_express %}
    do something
{% endif %}

{% if bool_var_express%}

{% else %}

{% endif %}

{% if cond_1 and cond_2 or cond_3 and not cond_4 %} # not allow `and` and `or` clauses within the same tag 

{% endif %}


if you find yourself needing parentheses, consider performing logic in the view code to simplify the templates, 

{% if cond_1 %}
    {% if cond_2 or cond_3 %}

    {% endif %}
{% endif %}

multiple use of the same logical operator are fine, but you can't combine different operators

not elif 

use nested {% if %}

countries = [{'name': 'china', 'cities': ['a', 'b', 'c']}, {'name': 'France', 'cities': ['fa', 'fb', 'fc']}, {'name':'England', 'cities': ['ea', 'eb', 'ec']}]


{% for country in countries %}
    {{ forloop.counter }} : {{ country.name }}
    {% for city in country.cities %}
        {{forloop.counter }} :: {{ city }}
    {% endfor %}    
{% endfor %}

forloop.counter0
forloop.revcounter
forloop.revcounter0

forloop.first ==> True/False

forloop.parentloop

```
{% for obj in objs %}
    {% if forloop.first %} 
        <li class='fisrt'>
    {% else %}
        <li>
    {% endif %}
{% endfor%}

{% for link in links %}
    {% if not forloop.last %}
        |
    {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
```

``` 
{%  ifequal user currentuser %}

{% endifeuql %}

{% ifnotequal section 'sitenews' %}

{% endifnotequal %}

only template variables, strings, integers, and floating numbers are allowed as arguments, 
```

filters: are simple way of altering the value of variables before they're displayed. 
filters can be chained
some filters take arguments in double quote
{{name|lower}}
{{text|escape|linebreaks}}
{{ bio|truncatewords:"30"}}

# Using Templates in Views


# Template Loading
```python
# settings.py

TEMPLATES = []
```

you can specify any directory you want, as long as the directory and templates within that directory are readable by the user account under which your Web server runs.

# subdirectories in get_template()

# the `include` template tag
{% include template_name %}

# template inheritance
define a base-template
```html
<!-- base.html-->
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN">
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>{% block title %}{% endblock %}</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>My helpful timestamp site</h1>
        {% block header %}
        
        {% endblock %}
        
        {% block content %}{% endblock %}
        
        {% block footer %}
        <hr>
        <p>Thanks for visiting my site.</p>
        {% endblock %}
    </body>
</html>

<!--  other templates-->
{% extends "base.html" %}

{% block title %} {% endblock %}

{% block content %} {% endblock %}
```

Inheritance doesn't affect the way the context works, you can use as many levels of inheritance as needed.
one common way of using inheritance is the following three-level approach:
1. Create `base.html` template that holds the main look and feel of your site. This is the stuff that rarely, if ever, changes.
2. Create a base_SECTION.html template for each "section" of your site, these templates extend `base.html` and include section-specific styles/desgin
3. create individual templates for each type of page, such as a forum page or a photo gallery. These templates extend the appropriate section template. 

- {% extends %} must be the first template tag in that template.
- Generally, the more {% block %} tags in your base templates, the better. Because child templates don't have to define all parent blocks, so you
    can fill in reasonable defaults in a number of blocks, and then define only the ones you need in the child templates. It's better to have more hooks than fewer hooks.
- If you need to get the content of the block from the parent template, the {{ block.super }} 


# Extending the Template engine

a `template` is a text document, or a normal python string, that is marked up using the Django template language, a template can contain block tags and variables

a `block tag` is a symbol within a template that does something. such as produce content, serve as a control structure( if / for), grab content from a database, or enable access to other template tags

block tags are surrounded by `{% %}`

a `variable` is a symbol within a template that outputs a value. 

a `context` is a name-> value mapping that is passed to a template. 

a template renders a context by replacing the variable "holes" with values from the context and executing all block tags.

# RequestContext and Context Processors
When rendering a template, you need a context.

context processor

```python
import django.template

django.template.Context
django.template.RequestContext

```


# template includes

# customer template filters and tags
you can create custom template tags and filters with the DTL by defining them in Python and the  loading them in 
a template with the {% load %} tag.

python package: templatetags contains tag and filter definitions. this package must live inside the app

# working with Context and RequestContext Objects and context processors

