# Django's Default Template Tags and Filters
[a list of template tags and template filters]()
## How invalid Variables are Handled
> Django's template system fails silently if an invalid variable is encountered, 
> so that the whole template won't break if a bad variable is passed
> 
> The Default behavior is to interpret the invalid variable as an empty string(''). Filter applied in this case are ignored.
> 
> the if, for, regroup template tags will interpret invalid variable as None. Filters are applied.
> 
> this default behavior can be changed by setting the `string_if_invalid` configuration option, 
> in the `TEMPLATES` list of the `settings.py`. 
> 
> A handy trick for debugging is to set `string_if_invalid` to `'%s'`,
> which will replace the invalid variable with the name of the variable 
# Custom Tags and Filters
> Define in Python and load them in a template with the `{% load %}` tag.
> 
> create a Python package named `templatetags` inside the app
> 
> 1. simple tags: take zero of more arguments and returns a list
> 2. inclusion tags: display data by rendering another template
```shell
/<app>/
    templatetags/
        __init__.py
        <definitons>.py
```

```python
# <app>/templatetages/<definitions>.py
from django import template
from django.template.defaultfilters import stringfilter
from datetime import datetime

register = template.Library()

#
# Custom Filters
#
@register.filter(name='<filter_name>')
# there is a problem with this filter,
# it expects a string, if you pass a nubmer to the filter
# you will get and error
@stringfilter # but it can be solved by adding @stringfilter decorator, 
                # with this, any number  passed to the filter will be converted to their string representation before the filter is applied.  
def filter_name(value): # the function name can be same as the registered name or not, but when using in the template, should use the registered name
    return value

#
# CUSTOM TAGS
#

# Simple Tags
# useful for returning snippets of text that are repeated often throughout the templates.
@register.simple_tag
# or
# @register.simple_tag(name='<tag_name>')
def a_tag(val):
    return val

# Inclusion Tags
# you will need to tell Django what template you want to use with the inclusion tag,
# and you must return a dictionary which Django will use as a context for the specified template.
@register.inclusion_tag('<app>/<template>.html')
def inclusion_tag():
    notes = [
        {
            'date': '6-10-2020',
            'note': 'ldsfkjasdlkgj',
        },
        {
            'date': '6-15-2020',
            'note': 'ldfjaskld',
        },
    ]
    return {'notes': notes}

```

```html
<!--<app>/templates/<app>/*.html-->
{% load static <definitions>%}
{{ somevalue_or_var|filter_name }}
{% a_tag %}
{% inclusion_tag %}
```

# Context, RequestContext and Context Processors 
under the hood, the render() method is creating an instance of a RequestContext class, which is a subclass of the Context class
both classes live in the django.template library.

## The Context Class
```python
from django.template import Context
con = Context()
con # [{'True': True, 'False': False, 'None': None}]
con = Context({'fn':'lskjd', "ln":"lksjdklf"})
# context is a dictionary-like object
con['ln'] # 'lskjd'
con.get('ln') # 'lskjd'
con.get('ln') # 'lskjd'
#
# Setting Default Values
con.setdefault('band', 'IKEA')
#
# Updating the context, 
# however, it operates differently than the regular dictionary update()
# A context object is a stack, so update() adds a new dictionary to the context; it doesn't update the existing.
con.update({'ln':'sdlkfj'}) # [{'True': True, 'False': False, 'None': None}, {'fn': 'lskjd', 'ln': 'lksjdklf'}, {'ln': 'dkslfjs'}]
#
# Converting the Context to a Single Dictionary
# be careful that if there are duplicate keys in the stack, the flattened key value will be set to the last value on the stack.
con.flatten()
#
# Using the Context as a Stack, 
# you can push() and pop() like a regular Python stack
# [{'True': True, 'False': False, 'None': None}, {'fn': 'lskjd', 'ln': 'lksjdklf'}, {'ln': 'dkslfjs'}, {'fn': 'Bruskld', 'ln': 'last name lsdjflk', 'band': 'sdlkjIKEA'}]
con.push(fn='Bruskld', ln='last name lsdjflk', band='sdlkjIKEA')
con.pop()
con.pop()

```
## RequestContext and Context Processors
> RequestContext is a subclass of Context that differs in two significant ways:
> 1. RequestContext takes an HttpRequest object as its first argument;
> 2. RequestContext populates the context dictionary with variables according to the context_processors configuration option.
> 
> In most applications, you will use RequestContext far more often than Context.
> the render() shortcut uses RequestContext by default, when we pass a simple dictionary to render(), Django Creates a RequestContext object for us.
> 
> context_processors is a list of callables defined in TEMPLATES in the settings.py
> 
> There are four default context processors- debug, request, auth and messages.
> 
> Each of these context processors will merge additional variables into the context.
> - django.template.context_processors.debug:
>   - debug: set to True if DEBUG mode
>   - slq_queries: A list of dictionaries representing all SQL queries executed so far in the request
> - django.template.context_processors.request:
>   - request: the current HttpRequest object. 
> - django.template.context_processors.auth:
>   - user : an auth.user instance representing the currently logged in user.
>   - perms : an object representing the current users' permissions
> - django.template.context_processors.messages:
>   - messages: a list of messages as strings
>   - DEFAULT_MESSAGE_LEVELS : a mapping of message level names to their numeric value.
```python
# view.py
from django.template import RequestContext, Template
from django.http import HttpResponse

def context_demo(request):
    template = Template('{{user}} {{perms}}')
    con = RequestContext(request)
    return HttpResponse(template.render(con))89+
```

> Django includes five other built-in template context processors which, if enabled, add more variables to the context that can be accessed in the template
> 
> - django.template.context_processors.i18n
>   - LANGUAGES: adds the value of the LANGUAGES setting, this is a lengthy list of tuples in the format('language code', 'language')
>   - LANGUAGE_BIDI: False if language is a left-to-right language, True if it's a right-to-left language
>   - LANGUAGE_CODE: the language code of the request.
> - django.template.context_processors.media
>   - MEDIA_URL : the value of the MEDIA_URL setting
> - django.template.context_processors.static:
>   - STATIC_URL: the value of the STATIC_URL setting
> - django.template.context_processors.csrf:
>   - adds a token for the csrf_token template tag. Rarely used because CSRF middleware is enabled by default, so {% csrf_token %} already works without needing to load this processor
> - django.template.context_processors.tz:
>   - TIME_ZONE: a variable containing the active time zone.
> 
> adding one of the built-in context processors is simple, just add the processor call to the context_processors list

# writing custom context processors
a context processor is a simple object that takes a request and returns a dictionary to add to the context. 

This makes them handy for adding common variables to the context without having to add the variable to each view,

if it's specific to an app, save it in the app directory, 
otherwise, if it's site-wide, save it in the root

```python
from django.template import Template, Context, RequestContext
from django.http import HttpResponse
def my_processor(request):
    return {'ksdl': 'ksd', 'lksdf': 'klsjdf'}

def context_demo(request):
    template = Template('{{ksdl}} ')
    con = RequestContext(request, processors=[my_processor,])
    return HttpResponse(template.render(con))
```

# Template Back Ends and Loaders
> Django comes with two built-in template back ends 
> 1. DTL (Django Template Language)
> 2. Jinja
> 
> if you want to use the Jinja2 engine
> change it to in the `TEMPLATES` of `settings.py` 
> `django.template.backends.jinja2.Jinja2',

# Template Loaders
> Django's template loaders find and load templates
> 
> `django.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader` loads templates from the filesystem as listed in the DIRS setting.
> 
> to provide additional search paths, just add them to the DIRS list
> 
> 
> `django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader` is also enabled by default
> and if `APP_DIRS` is `True`, it will search each app in your project for templates, in the order listed in the `INSTALLED_APPS` setting.
> 
> if your app overrides an admin template, it must be listed before `django.contrib.admin` in your INSTALLED_APPS, otherwise, the default admin templates
> will override your customer templates. 
> 
> the order to  `INSTALLED_APPS`   matters, because Django uses short-circuit logic when searching for templates.
> 
> Django comes with two other built-in loaders 
> `django.template.loaders.cached.Loader` : useful for when you want to speed up template rendering by caching template instances, 
> 
> `django.template.loaders.locmem.Loader`: loads templates from a Python dictionary and is useful for testing.

