taking input from user

the Web is all about search

never trust the incoming data, validation is essential

the "perfect form"
- ask the user for some information
- the submitted dat should be subjected to extensive validation
- if the user has made any mistakes, the form should be redisplayed with detailed, informative error messages. the original data should be prefilled, to save the user from having to reenter everything.


```python
# creating form
from django import forms

class <some>Form(forms.Form):
    field1 = forms.CharField()
    field2 = forms.EmailField()

# 
```
0. create the form
1. create a template for the form
2. create a new view to manage the form
3. add the new view and form to `urls.py`
Model forms
validate the field is not blank
validate the data submitted is the valid data type. 
ensure to deal with the entered data safely. 
feedback when they haven't filled out a form correctly. 

creating forms, validating data and providing feedback

the Contact form should not be in the events app, because it is not part of the app, 
place them in 

# model from
to collect information from the user and save the information in the database
with model form, you create a Django model and then create a form that inhreits 
from ModelForm, 

# Form Processing
taking input from user

the Web is all about search

```python
from django.db.models import Q
from django.shortcuts import render
from models improt 

def search(request):
    query = request.GET.get('q', None)
    if query:
        qset = (
            Q(title__icontains=query) |
            Q(authors__first_name__icontains=query) |
            Q(authors__last_name__icontains=query)
        )
        results = Book.objects.filter(qset).distinct()
    else:
        results = []
        
    return render(request, 'template', context={'a': 'b'})

```

never trust the incoming data, validation is essential

the "perfect form"
- ask the user for some information
- the submitted dat should be subjected to extensive validation
- if the user has made any mistakes, the form should be redisplayed with detailed, informative error messages. the original data should be prefilled, to save the user from having to reenter everything.

# Processing the submission


# django.core.mail.send_mail

```python
from django.shortcuts import redirect
```

redirect after POST

# custom validation rules

there are a number of ways to hook custom validation into a django form. 

if the rule is sth we will reuse again and agin, we can create a custom filed type, 

most custom validations are one-off affairs, and can be tied directly to the form class.

# creating form from model
```python

from django import forms
from . import models

class myForm(forms.ModelForm):
    class Meta:
        model = models.Book
        fields = "__all__"

from . import forms

def add_form(request):
    if request.method == 'POST':
        form = forms.myForm(request.POST)
        if form.is_valid():
            form.save()
            return redirect('/')
        else:
            raise V
```