# basic of Django Admin
## create a superuser login
```shell
python manage.py createsuperuser
```
## register models with admin
```python
from django.contrib import admin
admin.site.register(<model>)
```
## customize how our models are viewed in the admin, 
in Django, each model is represented in the admin interface by the ModelAdmin class 
to customize how a model displays in the admin, you can set several options in a custom ModelAdmin
subclass.
- making fields optional, by default all model fields are required
    making fields optional in the model by `blank=True`
- add and edit model data,
- manage users in the admin


the Django admin has 24 templates in total(not including templates for special functions like user registration and authorization):
13 HTML page templates for constructing admin pages, and 11 templates for admin template tags

the default templates are located in your virtual environment folder under
`\Lib\site-packages\django\contrib\admin\templates\admin`

all HTML templates except app_index.html are children of base_site.html,
which itself is a child of base.html. 

app_index.html adds one more step to the hierarchy, inheriting from index.html


template that can be customized at app and model levels:
app_index.html, change_form.html, change_list.html, object_history.html


template that can only be customized at project level. 
404.html, 500.html, base.html, base_site.html, delete_selected_confirmation.html, index.html, invalid_setup.html, login.html

# How to override a Template

there are three scopes, or levels, of template customization available:
1. Project level, Template is overridden for the whole project.
2. App Level, Template is overridden for a specific app.
3. Model Level, Template is overridden for a specific model.

the scope of the customization is set by creating a folder hierarchy in your `templates\admin`

the only restriction is that not all templates can be overridden at app and model level. 

# customizing the admin
## Changing teh site text
```python
# urls.py
admin.site.site_header = ''
admin.site.stie_title = ''
admin.site.index_title = ''
```

## Customizing Admin Styles
Since Django uses Short circuit logic when looking for templates and media files

so for Django to use your custom CSS files, they must be lower in the search hierarchy than the admin app. 

the best place to put them is in your site \static\ folder.

```shell
\<project>
  \static
    \admin\css\
      base.css
```

# Customizing the Default Admin Site
the default admin app (`django.contrib.admin.site`) is an instance of `django.contrib.admin.sites.AdminSite`, 

to customize the admin, you subclass AdminSite and override existing methods and attributes, as well as add your own.

There are two ways to customize the admin site:

1. Override the default admin: if customizations apply to all apps and models in the projcet
2. Create a new custom instance of the admin and register your models with that instance.: if the customizations apply to certain apps and models in the project.
3. do both.

## Overriding the default admin
to override the default admin, you must create a custom admin module(`admin.py`), and a custom configuration for your website app
that sets the default_site attribute to your custom admin class

### Define a custom admin class first
### create a configuration file for the class and set the default_ste attribute of the admin app 

## creating a custom admin site

```python
# if your wat users and groups in your custom admin,
from django.contrib import  admin
from django.contrib.admin import AdminSite
from django.contrib.admin.models import User, Group
from .models import Venue, ClubUser, Event

admin_site.register(User)
admin_site.register(Group)
```


