# class-based View
Django's class-based views are not designed to replace function-based views,

but to provide the advantages of using classes in views,

# The Basics -  View, RedirectView and TemplateView
> the underlying philosophy that governs the structure of Django's class-based views, 
> and the many generic views built upon them, is based on two simple rules:
> 
> 1. Attributes are objects
> 2. Each class should have only one parent, all other attributes and methods must come from mixins.
> 
> most attributes have a corresponding get_<attribute>() method

# View
> the View Class is the base class for all other views -- both function and class based views.
> 
> it provides an entry point for the request-response cycle and implements a dispatch-by-method interface for each of HTTP methods(GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE, HEAD, OPTIONS and TRACE)
> 
> Django's URL resolver passes the request and associated arguments to a callable function.
> 
> the view class provides all generic views with an as_view() class method 
> that returns a function when a request arrives with a matching URL. 
> 
> the initialization process is:
> 1. as_view() conducts some error checks, and if they pass, it creates an instance of the class
> 2. It then calls the setup() method to initialize the class attributes
> 3. Finally, it calls it's dispatch() method which look at the HTTP request method to see 
> if a matching class method exists. if it does, it executes the method, otherwise, 
> it calls http_method_not_allowed(), dispatch() will also call http_method_not_allowed() if the HTTP request
> is not in http_method_names.
> 
> both setup() and dispatch() can be overridden with custom class methods. 
> 
> setup() is useful for adding custom attributes to a class
> 
> dispatch() need to be more careful with, as many of the generic views override this method. 
> 
> the view class has one attribute-- http_method_names, its default value is a list of all available HTTP methods,
```python
http_method_names = ['get', 'post', 'put', 'patch', 'delete', 'head', 'options', 'trace']
# you can override this when you create your own class instance. 
http_method_names = ['get', 'post']
```
> 
> every generic view in Django descends from `View`

# The RedirectView Class
it adds no mixins and only one additional class method(get_redirect_url).
and four attributes.

- url: the URL to direct to
- pattern_name: The name of the URL pattern to redirect to. 
  it's used to perform reverse lookups, rather than hard-coding URLs with url.
- permanent: Default is False(302 status code). Change to True to perform a permanent redirect(301 status code).
- query_string: Boolean on whether to pass the GET query string(if any). Default is False.

RedirectView also provides implementations for all HTTP methods(except for TRACE):
- get(). a simple method that will return either a temporary(302) redirect, or permanent (301) redirect, based on the value of the permanent attribute.
- options(). RedirectView overrides this method to call get(), instead of returning a response object.
- delete(), head(), patch(), post(), put(), The remaining HTTP methods call get().

# The TemplateView Class
it has no attributes of its own and only implements one HTTP method: get(). 

It gets most of its functionality from the addition of two mixins

`TemplateResponseMixin` and `ContextMixin`

Django CBV Inspector

content_type: response content type. Defaults to nONe, which measn Django will use DEFAULT_CONTENT_TYPE
response_class: the class to be returned by render_to_response(). Default is TemplateResponse

template_engine: Name of the template engine to use when loading the template. Default is None(use configured engine).

**from little things, big things grow**
one parent, zero or more mixins structure is the foundation of all Django's class-based views. 
Advanced views are created by layering additional classes on simpler views (multi-level inheritance)

MRO: Method Resolution Order

example: MonthArchiveView, BaseMonthArchiveView, BaseDateListView, View


# Customizing Generic View classes and methods

# View, TemplateView, RedirectView, ListView and DetailView, 

# Generic Editing Views
## CreateView,
## UpdateView, 
## DeleteView, 
## FormView,
# Generic Date Views